Adding SRW results (#21)
dtcenter/ufs-case-studies: docs/source/2019Barry.rst

.. tabs::
  .. group-tab:: MRW.v1.0

    The UFS Medium-Range Weather (MRW) Application (App) is used to prepare initial conditions, compile and run the UFS model, and postprocess the raw model outputs. Two model configuration suites (``GFSv15p2`` and ``GFSv16beta``) are tested using the :emphasis:`C768` (~13km) spatial resolution with 64 vertical levels (default).

>     The case runs are initialized at 00z Jul 11, 2019 with 120 hours forecasting. The app uses ``./xmlchange`` to change the runtime settings. The settings that need to be modified to set up the start date, start time, and run time are listed below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The case runs are initialized at 00z Jul 11, 2019 with a forecast length of 120 hours. The app uses ``./xmlchange`` to change the runtime settings. The settings that need to be modified to set up the start date, start time, and run time are listed below.
```

    The case runs are initialized at 00z Jul 12, 2019 with 90 hours forecasting. The app uses ``config.sh`` to define the runtime settings. The settings that need to be modified to set up the first cycle, last cycle, forecast length and cycle hour are listed below.

    .. code-block:: bash
 
      FCST_LEN_HRS="90"
      LBC_SPEC_INTVL_HRS="3"
      DATE_FIRST_CYCL="20190712"
      DATE_LAST_CYCL="20190712"
      CYCL_HRS=( "00" )

    Initial condition (IC) files are created from GFS operational dataset in NEMSIO format. The `Stand-alone Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory (GFDL) Vortex Tracker <https://dtcenter.org/community-code/gfdl-vortex-tracker>`_ is a tool to estimate hurricane tracks and intensities. The `Best Track dataset <https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/data/#hurdat>`_ provides the ‘truth’ data for hurricane evolution.

    .. container:: sphx-glr-footer
       :class: sphx-glr-footer-example

      .. container:: sphx-glr-download sphx-glr-download-python

>         :download:`Download initial condition files: 2019071200.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz  <https://ufs-case-studies.s3.amazonaws.com/2019071200.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz>`

Reviewer 2: We will need to ask Dom to upload the IC files for the SRW app to the cloud next week.

Reviewer: Please provide me with a location of all files and I will upload them. Preferably on Cheyenne, but any NOAA platform will do.

Reviewer 2: Does it make sense to have only one download link entry that includes both SRW's IC and BC files? like `Download initial condition and boundary condition files: 2019071200.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz`.

Author: The IC tar file only contains the files for initial conditions which is consistent with global model, and the BC tar file contains files for boundary conditions only needed by LAM. So it is better to separate them as Dom suggested.

Reviewer 2: I see. Thank you @panll for the explanation!

   
      crontab Barry.crontab  

  .. group-tab:: SRW.v1.0

>     The UFS Short-Range Weather (SRW) Application (App) is used to prepare initial conditions, compile and run the UFS model, and post process the raw model outputs. Two model configuration compsets (``GFSv15p2`` and ``RRFSv1alpha``) are tested using the :emphasis:`C768` (~13km) spatial resolution with 64 vertical levels (default).

Reviewer: I would use "post-process" or "postprocess", both versions are more commonly used than "post process"

Author: "postprocess" is used, thanks!

    * The time variation of maximum wind speed in GFS.v16.0.10 agrees well with Best Track.
    * The minimum sea level pressure reaches to a lower value in GFS.v16.0.10 (982 hPa) compared with Best Track (993 hPa). 

  .. group-tab:: SRW.v1.0

>     .. figure:: images/2019Barry/tracker_Barry_srwv1.png

Reviewer 2: You can change the range of the colormap scale smaller so that the color differences can be more obvious.
`norm=co.Normalize(vmin=9,vmax=55)`

Author: Yes, Barry is weak, we can adjust that. Thanks!

      :width: 400
      :align: center

      Hurricane tracks from SRW_RRFS_v1alpha (blue line), SRW_GFSv15p2 (purple dash line), MRW_GFSv15p2 (red line), and Best Track (black line). The dots are color coded with the vortex maximum 10-m wind speed (WS, kt). 

    * Both MRW_GFSv15p2 and SRW_GFSv15p2 generate right-of-track biases. 
    * Hurricane track and intensity simulated by SRW_RRFSv1apha are closer to Best Track compared with SRW_GFSv15p2 and MRW_GFSv15p2.

>     .. figure:: images/2019Barry/tracker_ws_mslp_Barry_srwv1.png

Reviewer 2: I ended up using Best Track data from Jul 11 00Z- Jul 14 18Z. If I remember correctly, there is no available data after Jul 14 18Z. So it is technically 90 hr track data. Could you please cut the lines from SRW runs to be consistent with the available Best Track data?

Author: Yes, we can adjust that.

    * The time variation of maximum wind speed in GFS.v16.0.10 agrees well with Best Track.
    * The minimum sea level pressure reaches to a lower value in GFS.v16.0.10 (982 hPa) compared with Best Track (993 hPa). 

  .. group-tab:: SRW.v1.0

    .. figure:: images/2019Barry/tracker_Barry_srwv1.png
      :width: 400
      :align: center

      Hurricane tracks from SRW_RRFSv1alpha (blue line), SRW_GFSv15p2 (purple dash line), MRW_GFSv15p2 (red line), and Best Track (black line). The dots are color coded with the vortex maximum 10-m wind speed (WS, kt). 

    * Both MRW_GFSv15p2 and SRW_GFSv15p2 generate right-of-track biases. 
    * Hurricane track and intensity simulated by SRW_RRFSv1apha are closer to Best Track compared with SRW_GFSv15p2 and MRW_GFSv15p2.

    .. figure:: images/2019Barry/tracker_ws_mslp_Barry_srwv1.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Time series of the vortex maximum surface wind speed (WS, left panel) and minimum mean sea level pressure (MSLP, right panel)

>     * The peak wind speeds at the vortex center in MRW_GFSv15p2 (58 kts) SRW_RRFSv1alpha (58 kts) are closer to Best Track (67 kts) compared with SRW_GFSv15p2 (52 kts).

Reviewer: "and" missing between "(58 kts)" and "SRW_RRFSv1alpha"

Author: Here is the directory for the data on Hera, and the total size is around 3.2 TB. Thanks! @climbfuji 
hfe12:/scratch2/BMC/fv3lam/lpan/UFS_SRW_app_data>ls */*.gz
2018100900/2018100900_bc.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz  2019092512/2019092512.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz	2020040912/2020040912_bc.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz
2018100900/2018100900.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz     2019102812/2019102812_bc.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz	2020040912/2020040912.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz
2019052300/2019052300_bc.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz  2019102812/2019102812.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz	2020042912/2020042912_bc.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz
2019052300/2019052300.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz     2020011812/2020011812_bc.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz	2020042912/2020042912.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz
2019071200/2019071200_bc.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz  2020011812/2020011812.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz	2020072300/2020072300_bc.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz
2019071200/2019071200.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz     2020020312/2020020312_bc.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz	2020072300/2020072300.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz
2019092512/2019092512_bc.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz  2020020312/2020020312.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz

Reviewer: Thanks, @panll - will upload those today and let you know when it is finished.

Reviewer: @panll uploading this amount of data is VERY slow. I'll let you know when I think it is done, then you can check if all necessary files are there.

Author: Thanks, Dom! Yes, the data are huge (3.2TB). Jun seems don't have a better way to reduce the nemsio file size. @climbfuji

>     * Both two physics compsets simulate the minimum sea level pressure relatively well. The results from SRW app v1.0 slightly overestimate the minimum sea level pressure. 

Reviewer: remove "two"

Author: Changed, thanks!
